CAF: sensor_manager: Add sensor event aggregator (#7162)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/libraries/caf/sensor_data_aggregator.rst

.. _caf_sensor_data_aggregator:

CAF: Sensor data aggregator module
##################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The |sensor_data_aggregator| of the :ref:`lib_caf` (CAF) is a simple, module responsible for aggregating sensor data in form of sensor_event and passing them further in packages.

Configuration
*************

The following Kconfig options are required:

* :kconfig:`CONFIG_CAF_SENSOR_DATA_AGGREGATOR` - This option enables the |sensor_data_aggregator|.

To use the module, you must complete the following steps:

1. Enable the :kconfig:`CONFIG_CAF_SENSOR_DATA_AGGREGATOR` option.

> #. Add the app.overlay file that describes the aggregator parameters.

Reviewer: I wouldn't say you need to add `app.overlay` specifically as it could be added in many places that would do the same.
Lets write:
`Enable aggregator in devicetree file`. Line 23 could be removed imho.

Author: I will leave decision if we should leave line: "   Each aggregator should be placed as a separate node."
to @divipillai.

   Each aggregator should be placed as a separate node.
   For example, the file content could look like follows:

   .. code-block:: devicetree

      agg0: agg0 {
              compatible = "caf,aggregator";
              sensor_descr = "accel_sim_xyz";
              buf_data_length = <120>;
              sensor_data_size = <12>;
              status = "okay";
      };

      agg1: agg1 {
             compatible = "caf,aggregator";
             sensor_descr = "void_test_sensor";
             buf_data_length = <80>;
             sensor_data_size = <8>;
             status = "okay";
      };

> Here there are defined two aggregators each of which is responsible for handling data of different sensor.

Reviewer: `In this example two aggregators are defined, that aggregates data from different sensors`.

> Aggregator parameters

Reviewer: I'm wondering if we need this section at all. You have it described in binding itself. I would remove that.

Author: @divipillai should we remove this section? In my opinion it is worth leaving as it is.

.. _caf_sensor_data_aggregator:

CAF: Sensor data aggregator module
##################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The |sensor_data_aggregator| of the :ref:`lib_caf` (CAF) is a simple module responsible for aggregating sensor data in form of ``sensor_event`` and passing them further in packages.

> It can be used in multi-core chips to reduce power consumption.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It can be used in both single-core and multi-core SoCs to reduce power consumption.
```

Author: changed a bit because in single-core power consumption level is not reduced.

> In this case, one core gathers data from sensors and when there is sufficient data to analyze, the first core wakes up the other core and sends the aggregated data to that core.

Reviewer 2: - "In this case" -- are there other use cases besides the multi-core one?
- "when there is sufficient data to analyze, the first core wakes up the other core and sends the aggregated data to that core." -- in line 22, you use an "if" for this option, so my question is: is this optional? what is the condition for if? It's a bit confusing now, as this is presented here as the default option, not an optional one.

Author: Yes, you ca use it also in single core device. The if is if you use two core. In my opinion "If you want to receive aggregated data on another core," is quite clear about that.

> In this case, one core gathers data from sensors and when there is sufficient data to analyze, the first core wakes up the other core and sends the aggregated data to that core.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When used with multi-core SoCs, one core gathers data from sensors and when there is sufficient data to analyze, the first core wakes up the other core and sends the aggregated data to that core.
```

Configuration
*************

The |sensor_data_aggregator| module can be enabled by selecting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_SENSOR_DATA_AGGREGATOR` option.

To use the module, you must complete the following steps:

1. Enable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_SENSOR_DATA_AGGREGATOR` option.

> #. Enable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_SENSOR_DATA_AGGREGATOR_EVENTS` option, If you want to receive aggregated data on another core.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. If you want to receive aggregated data on another core, enable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_SENSOR_DATA_AGGREGATOR_EVENTS` option, 
```

> #. If you want to receive aggregated data on another core, on the second core enable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_SENSOR_DATA_AGGREGATOR_EVENTS` option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. If you are using multi-core SoC and want to receive aggregated data on another core, on the second core enable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_SENSOR_DATA_AGGREGATOR_EVENTS` option.
```

> #. Enable aggregator in devicetree file that describes the aggregator parameters.

Reviewer 2: Is this a separate file? Can we provide its name?

   Each aggregator should be placed as a separate node.
   For example, the file content could look like follows:

   .. code-block:: devicetree

      agg0: agg0 {
              compatible = "caf,aggregator";
              sensor_descr = "accel_sim_xyz";
              buf_data_length = <120>;
              sensor_data_size = <12>;
              status = "okay";
      };

      agg1: agg1 {
             compatible = "caf,aggregator";
             sensor_descr = "void_test_sensor";
             buf_data_length = <80>;
             sensor_data_size = <8>;
             status = "okay";
      };

> Two aggregators are defined here and each one is responsible to handle data of the different sensors. The aggregator is defined as a separate node in the devicetree and consists of the following parameters:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Two aggregators are defined here and each one is responsible to handle data of the different sensors.
The aggregator is defined as a separate node in the devicetree and consists of the following parameters:
```
One line, one sentence in the NCS.

> * ``compatible`` - This is DTS binding and should be set to ``caf,aggregator``.

Reviewer 2: I was about to ask if the comma in the file name is intended, but I guess it is...

> * ``sensor_descr`` - It represents the description of the sensor and should be the same as the description in the :ref:`caf_sensor_sampler` module.

Reviewer 2: Replace "it" with "This parameter" here and in the following lines.

* ``buf_data_length`` - It represents the length of the buffer in bytes.
  Its default value is ``120``.
  The value should be set as a multiple of sensor sample size.
* ``sensor_data_size`` - It represents the sensor sample size and is set in bytes.
  Its default value is ``4``.
* ``buf_coun`` - It represents the number of buffers in the aggregator.
  Its default value is ``2``.
* ``status`` - It represents the node status and should be set to ``okay``.

> 

Reviewer 2: One blank line not needed.

Implementation details
**********************

|sensor_data_aggregator| subscribes to following sensor manager events:

* :c:struct:`sensor_state_event`
* :c:struct:`sensor_event`
* :c:struct:`sensor_data_aggregator_release_buffer_event`.

The |sensor_data_aggregator| gathers data from :c:struct:`sensor_event` and stores the data in an active :c:struct:`aggregator_buffer`.

> When buffer is full, |sensor_data_aggregator| sends the buffer to :c:struct:`sensor_data_aggregator_event` struct.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When buffer is full, the |sensor_data_aggregator| sends the buffer to :c:struct:`sensor_data_aggregator_event` struct.
```
Fix in following lines too, please.

Then module searches for the next free :c:struct:`aggregator_buffer` and sets it as an active buffer.

After changing the sensor state and receiving :c:struct:`sensor_state_event`, |sensor_data_aggregator| sends the data that is gathered in the active buffer.

After receiving :c:struct:`sensor_data_aggregator_release_buffer_event`, |sensor_data_aggregator| sets :c:struct:`aggregator_buffer` to free state.

Several buffers can be reduced to one, in case of a situation where the sampling period is greater than the time needed to send and process :c:struct:`sensor_data_aggregator_event`.
In the situation when sampling is much faster than the time needed to send and process :c:struct:`sensor_data_aggregator_event`, the number of buffers should be increased.

> .. |sensor_data_aggregator| replace:: sensor data aggregator

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. |sensor_data_aggregator| replace:: sensor data aggregator module
```

.. _caf_sensor_data_aggregator:

CAF: Sensor data aggregator module
##################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The |sensor_data_aggregator| of the :ref:`lib_caf` (CAF) is a simple module responsible for aggregating sensor data in form of ``sensor_event`` and passing them further in packages.

> It can be used in both single-core and multi-core SoCs.
> In multi-core SoCs using the |sensor_data_aggregator| can reduce power consumption.
> When used with multi-core SoCs, one core gathers data from sensors and when there is sufficient data to analyze, the first core wakes up the other core and sends the aggregated data to that core.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It can be used in both single-core and multi-core SoCs.

When used with multi-core SoCs, the |sensor_data_aggregator| can reduce power consumption.
One core gathers data from sensors and when there is sufficient data to analyze, the first core wakes up the other core and sends the aggregated data to that core.
```

   :depth: 2

The |sensor_data_aggregator| of the :ref:`lib_caf` (CAF) is a simple, module responsible for aggregating sensor data in form of sensor_event and passing them further in packages.
It can be used in multi-core chips to reduce power consumption.

> In this situation one core is used to gather data from sensors and when there is enough data for analyze first core wakes up other core and sends it aggregated data.

Reviewer: We dont have this functionality yet so i wouldn't mention that.
